Say No

Recently I was busy playing the role of a good listener. Two of my best friends came to me for help basically at the same time and for the same thing. They don’t know how to say no to other people. 
 
One of my best friend Lulu, she worked for government. Her boss is a middle aged women who is very gossipy. That women likes to say bad behind people’ back. Actually It would be okay If she gossip in front of her families or her close friends. But the thing is she likes to talk in front of my friend Lulu. Anytime when she gets a chance to stay with my friend, like they are on the way to have meeting with clients or they happened to sit at a same table having lunch, she will start to speak ill of others. Lulu hates that, but she dare not say it aloud because she doesn’t want to lose her job. She has to pretend hard that she is listening, nodding her head or make an expression of surprise. She never said no to her boss, not even once although it kills her. 

Another friend who is also in bad mood. Her work time is mostly like “996”. So every time when she has a holiday, she just want to sleep. But one of her colleague likes to interrupt it. She is very sticky. Even after my friend constantly worked overtime for five weeks, and finally got her one day holiday, she knocked my friend’s door and ask my friend to cook with her. She treated herself like a host not a guest. Although my friend is exhausted, she didn’t refuse her colleague because she is a person who doesn’t know how to say no to others. In her opinion she will make others feel bad and unhappy If she said no to them. She doesn’t want to make the atmosphere become awkward. So she always sacrifices herself to entertain other people. But actually deep in her heart, she feel wronged and sad. She complained about this impolite colleague behind her but she can’t say it to her face. 

I had the same experience. My boss likes to have meetings. Can you imagine ? Sometimes we only have one meeting in a day but it lasts from the morning till the night. Five working days a week, three days we are at meetings. I am not a manager who doesn’t need to do any other work except for the management. So I need to work overtime to make up the times that I waste on the meetings. It makes me feel inefficient and the question is I hate wasting time on the meaningless things. One day my boss asked me to attend a meeting about a new product release from R&D department, according to previous experience, I can tell this launch meeting will take me at least two hours to discuss about the things which should be considered by the R&D department before this launch. I don’t want to waste my time to do their job. So I said “No” to my boss. I said I don’t want to attend that meeting, because I know that they are not ready yet. They didn’t even send out the launch documents to us. Can we ask them to postpone the meeting till they are well prepared? ” My boss was shocked by my words, although he knew that I was not an obedient subordinate but I can still see the surprise in his face. I thought he would get mad at me but he didn’t . He nodded his head and said “okay, I think you are right. Let me check with their leader first and then reschedule the meeting ” What a relief to me! And that day was the first day that I didn’t work overtime ever since I joined that company. You see, it’s not a big deal to say “no” to the thing that we dislike. Nothing bad happened!

We are all grownups, say “”no” to the negative things is a skill we must learn. This is also what an adult should have. Everyone should be frank to themselves. We don’t have obligations to sacrifice ourselves in order to make other people happy. Be brave to express yourself, and say “no" to the things what will bring you negative mood and cost yourself. Then you don’t need to pretend and you won’t complain about others, instead you will find the people around are so adorable and nice, and the world we live is filled with peace.
